=GeoMap=

GeoMap makes drawing geographic maps in Processing easy.

==Install==

To install GeoMap, download the most recent version from the [http://code.google.com/p/gicentre-geomap/downloads/list Downloads] page and follow the [http://wiki.processing.org/w/How_to_Install_a_Contributed_Library Manual Install] instructions on the Processing wiki.

==Use==

===Constructor methods===

GeoMap has two constructor methods.

<code language="processing">GeoMap(xOrigin, yOrigin, mapWidth, mapHeight, parent)</code>

The first constructor method creates a map with the given bounds. It has five parameters:

 # {{{xOrigin}}} is the position of the map from the left of the sketch. It can be a {{{float}}} or an {{{int}}}.
 # {{{yOrigin}}} is the position of the map from the top of the sketch. It can be a {{{float}}} or an {{{int}}}.
 # {{{mapWidth}}} is the width of the map. It can be a {{{float}}} or an {{{int}}}.
 # {{{mapHeight}}} is the height of the map. It can be a {{{float}}} or an {{{int}}}.
 # {{{parent}}} is the parent sketch. It should be a {{{PApplet}}}. In most cases, simply use {{{this}}} to refer to the current Processing sketch.

----
<code language="processing">GeoMap(PApplet parent)</code>

The second constructor method creates a map with the default bounds. It has one parameter:

 # {{{parent}}} is the parent sketch. It should be a {{{PApplet}}}. In most cases, simply use {{{this}}} to refer to the current Processing sketch.

===File methods===

GeoMap has one method to read geometry and attributes from an [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shapefile ESRI shapefile]. Note that a shapefile consists of three files:

 * _fileName.shp_ contains the geometry.
 * _fileName.dbf_ contains the attributes.
 * _fileName.dbx_ contains the index.

Each file should be placed in the data directory of the current Processing sketch. The easiest way to do this is to drag and drop each file into the Processing development environment.

<code language="processing">geoMap.readFile(fileName)</code>

Reads geometry and attributes from an [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shapefile ESRI shapefile]. It has one parameter:

 # {{{fileName}}} is the name of the file without the extension. It should be a {{{String}}}.

===Draw methods===

GeoMap has three draw methods.

<code language="processing">geoMap.draw()</code>

The first draw method draws the map in the parent sketch.

----
<code language="processing">geoMap.draw(id)</code>

The second draw method draws the feature that matches the given id. It has one parameter:

 # {{{id}}} is the id that identifies the feature to draw. It should be an {{{int}}}.

----
<code language="processing">geoMap.draw(attribute, column)</code>

The third draw method draws the features that match the given attribute in the given column in the map's attribute table. It has two parameters:

 # {{{attribute}}} is the attribute that identifies the features to draw. It should be a {{{String}}}.
 # {{{column}}} is the column in the attribute table. It should be an {{{int}}}. Note that the first column in the attribute table is {{{0}}}, the second is {{{1}}}, the third is {{{2}}} and so on.